Document `dependsOn` workarounds for invokes (#12327)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/concepts/resources/functions.md

Provider functions are exposed in each language as regular functions, in two variations:

>  1. A function that accepts plain arguments (strings and so on) and returns an asynchronous value (e.g. a `Promise` in NodeJS, or a `Task` in Python), or blocks until the result is available. This is often referred to as the _direct form_.
>  2. A function that accepts `Input` values and returns an [Output](/docs/concepts/inputs-outputs/). This is often referred to as the _output form_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. The **direct form** accepts plain arguments (e.g. `string`, as opposed to `pulumi.Input<string>`) and returns an asynchronous value (e.g. a `Promise` in NodeJS, or a `Task` in Python), or blocks until the result is available. These functions are typically named, e.g., `getFoo()`.
 2. The **output form** accepts `Input` values (or plain values) and returns an [Output](/docs/concepts/inputs-outputs/). These functions are typically named, e.g., `getFooOutput()`.
```

> The documentation for a provider function will tell you the name and signature for each of the variations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Pulumi Registry](/registry) contains authoritative documentation for all provider functions.
```

#### Invoke options

> Each function and method also accepts "invoke options", either as an object or as varargs depending on the host language. The options are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each function and method also accepts "invoke options", similar to the way Pulumi resources accept [resource options](concepts/options/). Invoke options may be specified either as an object or as varargs depending on the language you're writing your Pulumi program in. The options are as follows:
```

# always available.
pulumi.all(res1.urn, res2.urn).apply(lambda args: my_function_output())
```

{{% /choosable %}}
{{% choosable language java %}}

```java
package generated_program;

import com.pulumi.Context;
import com.pulumi.Output;
import com.pulumi.Pulumi;

public class App {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Pulumi.run(App::stack);
    }

    public static void stack(Context ctx) {
        final var res1 = new MyResource("res1", new MyResourceArgs());
        final var res2 = new MyResource("res2", new MyResourceArgs());

        // Assuming `myFunctionOutput` is an output-form invocation of the `myFunction`
        // provider function, this use of `tuple` and `applyValue` will ensure that it does
        // not happen until `res1` and `res2` have been processed. This will work for
        // any set of resources, even those with no explicit outputs, since the `.urn`
        // output is always available.
        Output.tuple(res1.getUrn(), res2.getUrn()).applyValue(t -> myFunctionOutput());
    }
}
```

{{% /choosable %}}
{{% choosable language yaml %}}

Output form invocations are not yet supported in YAML

{{% /choosable %}}
{{< /chooser >}}

> ### Provider methods

Reviewer 2: Smallish thing, but would it be clearer to call these Resource methods instead (since they're exposed on resources)? Seems so, but will leave the call up to you.

```suggestion
### Resource methods
```

- `version`: Pass a provider plugin version that should be used when invoking the function.

- `async`: _This option is deprecated and will be removed in a future release_

### Dependencies and ordering

While the direct and output forms of a provider function are equivalent in terms
of the results they produce when invoked, they differ in how they interact with
the rest of the Pulumi program and the order in which they may be executed.
Specifically:

- Direct form invocations execute just like any other function call in the language. Since they do not accept Pulumi `Input`s nor return Pulumi `Output`s, they are not tracked by the Pulumi engine and do not participate in the dependency graph.

- Output form invocations, on the other hand, are tracked by the Pulumi engine and participate in the dependency graph. This means, for example, that Pulumi will ensure that input resources are created or updated before an invocation and that the invocation is executed before dependent resources are created or updated.

> In general, you should prefer the output form of a provider function when you need to ensure that the function is executed in the correct order with respect to other resources in your program. This applies particularly if you wish to simulate something like the [`dependsOn` resource option](/docs/concepts/options/dependson/), where you want to ensure that a resource is created before the function is invoked, without necessarily passing the resource as an argument to the function. While there is no `dependsOn` [invoke option](#invoke-options) for provider functions, you can achieve the same effect using Pulumi's [`all`](/docs/concepts/inputs-outputs/all/) function and `Output`'s [`apply` method](/docs/concepts/inputs-outputs/apply/):

Reviewer 2: This wording feels a bit squishy to me. As I understand it, it's not that you should _generally prefer_ the output form when you need to ensure that the function is executed in the correct order with respect to other resources -- it's that that's your only option. Right? (In other words, you _can't_ use the direct form to invoke a function in relation to the output of a resource because resource outputs don't produce plain values.) The next sentence is also a bit confusing in that it begins with "this applies" (i.e. presumably, "using the output form applies") when you want to ensure that a resource is created before the function is invoked _without passing the resource as an argument_ -- but since doing so is actually impossible, it can't apply either.

IMO it'd be clearer and more direct to say that when a function accepts one or more output arguments, Pulumi will resolve the outputs before invoking the function, and if you need to specify a dependency on outputs that the function doesn't depend on directly, you can use `pulumi.all` to tell Pulumi to resolve those outputs first, then invoke the function yourself, as in the following example. (Or similar.) 

Mentioning `dependsOn` probably makes sense too, given we're adding this in response to a request for that property. (Which I've actually wished for myself!) Do you know if we're planning to do this, though? If we are, we might instead want to link to that issue from this page and then position this approach as an option to be used in the meantime.

Author: Good shout -- I've gone for some stronger wording on this and would be grateful to get your thoughts! In terms of linking an issue -- for now, this is the resolution to that issue, precisely because the sharing of `InvokeOptions` across the two forms when only one (the output form) actually supports the notion, is problematic. Open to thoughts on this though.

> <div><pulumi-examples>

Author: Ah thanks!

# always available.
pulumi.all(res1.urn, res2.urn).apply(lambda args: my_function_output())
```

</pulumi-choosable>
</div>
<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="java">

```java
package generated_program;

import com.pulumi.Context;
import com.pulumi.Output;
import com.pulumi.Pulumi;

public class App {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Pulumi.run(App::stack);
    }

    public static void stack(Context ctx) {
        final var res1 = new MyResource("res1", new MyResourceArgs());
        final var res2 = new MyResource("res2", new MyResourceArgs());

        // Assuming `myFunctionOutput` is an output-form invocation of the `myFunction`
        // provider function, this use of `tuple` and `applyValue` will ensure that it does
        // not happen until `res1` and `res2` have been processed. This will work for
        // any set of resources, even those with no explicit outputs, since the `.urn`
        // output is always available.
        Output.tuple(res1.getUrn(), res2.getUrn()).applyValue(t -> myFunctionOutput());
    }
}
```

</pulumi-choosable>
</div>
<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="yaml">

> Output form invocations are not yet supported in YAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Output form invocations are not yet supported in YAML.
```

Worth asking, though -- will they be? If so, is there an issue tracking it?

<div><pulumi-examples>
<div><pulumi-chooser type="language" options="typescript,python,go,csharp,java,yaml"></pulumi-chooser></div>
<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="typescript">

```typescript
import * as gcp from "@pulumi/gcp";
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

const project = new gcp.organizations.Project("project", {
    name: "project",
    projectId: "project",
    billingAccount: "bills",
    autoCreateNetwork: false,
});

> // Since `project.name` is immediately available, we need to use `all` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// Since `project.name` isn't immediately available, we need to use `all` and
```

I think?  Or am I misreading something?  Same with the other comments.

Reviewer 4: Yeh I don't think this is the best example. `name` and `urn` resolve at the same time for project. Ideally this would use a different resource where it's input isn't needed to make the call but it's creation is needed for the call to actually work.

Author: I think this is right. Because `project.name` _is_ immediately available (since it was provided as a literal), Pulumi won't block until `project` is ready. `project.urn`, however, _won't_ be available until `project` has actually been bonafide constructed, so the `all` fixes that. @Frassle is this complete nonsense?

Reviewer 3: Ah then I misunderstood  In that case `project.name` wouldn't need to be part of `pulumi.all` at all though right?  Maybe something like 

// Since `project.name` is immediately available (before the project is ready), but we also want to wait for the urn to be ready, we need to use `all` and

Or maybe

// Since `project.name` is immediately available (before the project is ready), we can use `project.urn` as a proxy for it being ready.  This is why we need to use `all` to make sure it's completely ready

Author: Yea this example isn't great it turns out -- have replaced with something synthetic but at least correct (and this seems to be in line with how `dependsOn` is currently documented)

				project := args[0].(string)
				return compute.GetZonesOutput(ctx, &compute.GetZonesOutputArgs{
					Region:  pulumi.String("us-central1"),
					Project: pulumi.String(project),
					Status:  pulumi.String("UP"),
				})
			},
		)
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}

		return nil
	})
}
```

</pulumi-choosable>
</div>
<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="python">

```python
import pulumi
import pulumi_gcp as gcp

project = gcp.organizations.Project("project",
    name="project",
    project_id="project",
    billing_account="bills",
    auto_create_network=False)

# Since `project.name` is immediately available, we need to use `pulumi.Output.all`
# and `pulumi.Output.apply` to ensure that `project` is created and available before
# calling `gcp.compute.get_zones`.
pulumi.Output.all(project.name, project.urn) \
    .apply(lambda args: gcp.compute.get_zones_output(
        region="us-central1",
        project=args[0],
        status="UP"
    ))
```

</pulumi-choosable>
</div>
<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="java">

Output form invocations are not yet supported in Java

</pulumi-choosable>
</div>
<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="yaml">

> Output form invocations are not yet supported in YAML

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Output form invocations are not supported in YAML
```

I'm not sure we'll ever want to support them?  "Not yet" gives the impression that we do want to.

Reviewer 4: I don't see why we couldn't support them in YAML eventually?

Reviewer 3: Fair, I guess I didn't see how they fit in well with yaml, but I also didn't think long about it.

<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="java">

> No example available for Java

Reviewer 2: Are there just no examples in Java and YAML, or are provider methods not supported in those languages? If not supported, is it that they aren't supported _yet_ (in which case it'd also be good to link to an issue), or that they'll never be? (Generally best to be clear on things like this, as folks will likely wonder the same.)

Author: I'm not actually sure on this -- I've merely (perhaps wrongly) added some cosmetic changes to this bit but am not responsible for the original docs (nor sure on the answers to your questions).

</pulumi-choosable>
</div>
<div>
<pulumi-choosable type="language" values="yaml">

No example available for YAML

</pulumi-choosable>
</div>

</pulumi-examples></div>

> Unlike provider functions, methods always appear in the _output form_: they take `Input` arguments, and return an `Output`. Moreover, methods do not accept invoke options.

Reviewer 2: >Moreover, methods do not accept invoke options.

Just curious -- what does it actually mean that "methods don't accept invoke options"? If "invoke options" are themselves just function arguments, and methods do take arguments, what is this sentence supposed to convey to me as a user? If we deleted it, would anything useful be lost?

Author: So for a "normal" invoke you can do something like `aws.getAmi(..., { provider: myCustomProvider })`, for instance, where `{ provider: myCustomProvider }` are the invoke options (akin to resource options). Methods don't allow this, (presumably -- again not an expert here) because they'll inherit the options from the resource on which they are being called (so e.g. we don't want to allow you to overload the provider since the owning resource will have already defined one). So at a language level, yes, the method takes arguments, but only those which are inputs to the function, not the "second set" that let you control bits around how Pulumi performs the invoke. If that makes sense? Happy to make changes as you see fit on this.

Reviewer 2: Yes, it does make sense, thanks! I didn't realize it was this "second set" that this referred to.
